Goldman Sachs has been around for 155
years and there's been a lot said about
Goldman Sachs's culture and Goldman
Sachs's culture is unique. But I would
also say it's constantly changing
>> and you better be working at defining
what you want it to be and constantly
reshaping it and amplifying what you
think really matters. The general ethos
of the firm is if you build trust with
clients, if you take a long-term view,
if you do the right thing, good things
will happen. And I I've watched that in
my career and I believe it deeply.
[music]
Okay, this is a special episode with
David Solomon, the CEO of Goldman Sachs,
an incredible company, been around 150
years, just a terrific person in a
terrific company. We get into a whole
bunch of topics. One was decision-m and
in particular, you've got something
going, it's kind of wobbling. When do
you double down and when do you pull
away? and he's he recently has had a
Whopper decision where they had a
consumer partnership with Apple and they
recently basically walked away from that
partnership and so we get behind the
scenes on that decision. I think it was
pretty interesting. He credits culture a
lot with why they've been around for 150
years. I've had a ton of CEOs and it's
really thrived. He's really thrived in
the job and we get into culture. Culture
is a big reason why HubSpot's only 19
years has been successful as well. I
hope you like the episode. David is very
sharp. Uh I he joined the company. It
had a 40 billion market cap I believe
and now it's something like 160 billion
less than a decade later. So he's very
very good and very thoughtful. Hope you
enjoy it. Thanks for joining us.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> Um when I was a CEO, I really admired
Steve Jobs. Um I tried to emulate him. I
kind of really studied him and followed
his playbook and it largely served me
pretty well. Who's your Steve Jobs?
>> That's a great question. I, you know,
I'd start by saying that, you know,
Steve was obvious obviously
extraordinary in the context of what he
did.
>> Although I don't know that most public
company CEOs
could model Steve and get away with it
in uh in today's in today's world. But
he was extraordinary in terms of his his
his his focus, you know, his vision for
what he thought really mattered. I don't
I've thought a lot about this because
I've been asked similar questions, you
know, over the years. And I I don't have
a Steve Jobs.
>> One of the things on your Mount
Rushmore.
>> Well, I mean there there that you know,
I mentioned, you know, some people right
now that I, you know, I watch and I I I
think enormously high. I mentioned Satia
um Nadella and you know one of the
things I've learned from him in my own
journey as a CEO is he's an incredibly
empathetic leader
>> and you know it's hard you know to move
an organization and also exhibit empathy
>> um and um and so I've you know I've
watched some of what Sati has done you
know in that context because um you know
I think I think he leads with an
enormous amount of empathy besides the
fact that he's a great strategic thinker
and a whole bunch of other things.
>> Um he's done an extraordinary job with
uh with Microsoft
>> but then you also you know you can also
you know pick and choose you know people
that you know at times have led
extraordinary transformations.
you know his his journey is a different
one at this point for a variety of
reasons but there was a period of time
where I was really watching the way Bob
Iger was transforming Disney and you
know it was a difficult transformation
and so
I've tried to pick out things that are
going on with different CEOs and
constantly say what can I learn one of
the great advantages I have in my job is
part of my job is to travel around and
spend time with CEOs
>> interesting people
>> so you get with interesting people so
you get ask them, you know, why you
doing this? Why'd you do this? How did
this work? So, I get a lot of private
time with with CEOs to really reflect
and that's helped me a lot in my own my
own journey as a CEO.
>> You've worked for some legends, uh,
Lloyd Blankfine, Hank Pollson. Did they
mentor or coach you? Is there things you
took from them that were incredibly
valuable that all of us can learn from?
>> I learned a lot from both of them. And
you learned different. They they they
had different skills. They had different
personalities. into different things.
Lloyd was an incredible risk manager, an
incredible risk manager, and he had a he
had an incredible ability to really
sweat and worry about the things that
had a small probability of happening.
But boy oh boy, the fact that he was
that way when we went into the financial
crisis, you know, he was two steps ahead
a lot of other uh a lot of other bank
CEOs and I think was really
extraordinary as a risk manager in that
context.
>> [clears throat]
>> You know, Hank Hank was Hank was driven.
He had a great nose for client
relationships and how to get things
done. And Hank also, you know, Hank had
an incredible compass. And you know, one
of the things that I definitely
>> What do you mean by that?
>> He believe he we all need a compass, you
know, in these [clears throat] jobs and
you want that compass pointing north.
And one of the complicated things about
being a CEO is there are a whole lot of
things that are constantly banging on
you trying to knock your compass off of
north. And sometimes it takes enormous,
you know, resilience and determination
to keep that compass keep it pointed in
the direction that you know is right
while there's a lot of noise or agida.
And you know, one of the things I
learned from Hank and I [clears throat]
just remember I remember sitting in a
meeting with him, you know, early on
when I was at Goldman Sachs and somebody
was suggesting something and there was a
lot of momentum for it and he just said,
"Well, we're not going to do that."
>> Okay.
>> And it was completely against it was
completely against kind of the consensus
of the room and he was he was being a
CEO because he thought it was wrong. He
said, "We're not going to do that."
>> And so I you know I think it's um I
think you can learn from a lot of
people. I had a great mentor who wasn't
a CEO who actually you know if you would
if you would frame the question around
who's the most important mentor
>> you've had in your career was a
gentleman named Richie Metric okay
>> who I worked for at Bear Sterns in the
1990s been the CFO of Interstate
Bakeries he'd been a lawyer
>> he was also just intuitively one of the
smartest people I've ever met in my
career and I've met a lot of smart
people but he had a profound impact on
teaching me at a time when I was in my
late 20s and my early 30s and I was kind
of rising up in an organization
relatively quickly. He really taught me
to be self-reflective and really
understand strengths and weaknesses
>> and you know be pretty hard on myself
about things that I had to change
>> if I wanted to advance. He forced me to
look at myself at a time where I had,
you know, less maturity, less of an
ability to really I was just going
>> and he for forced me to pause and really
think about myself and how I could make
myself better. And he had a profound had
a profound impact on me.
>> Okay. Interesting. There's it's a little
bit fashionable in Silicon Valley these
days that people are saying you got a
much better return on your investment by
investing in your strengths and making
them stronger versus fixing your
weaknesses and you should just hire
around your weaknesses. Any reaction to
that? I I think to be successful over a
very very long career where you're going
to be in leadership positions and
ultimately rise up to lead a big
organization. And by the way, it's very
different from a founder leads an
organization because they created it.
>> Yes.
>> And they anoint themselves founder. It's
theirs.
>> Yes.
you know, rising up to lead a 150-y old
organization like Goldman Sachs,
>> you better have a lot of strengths, you
better be working on your weaknesses,
okay?
>> Because if you're not doing all of the
above, first of all, it's a random walk
to begin with because there's so many
talented people. And you know, one of
the things I've always talked about is
serendipity and timing.
>> Um, and I think serendipity and timing
have a lot to do with who winds up in
the in the CEO jobs in these in these
organizations.
Um, but I think you better be working on
the, you know, the whole package if you
want to put yourself into the ring and
have a chance to, uh, to come out of the
ring. Got it.
>> To come to come out of the ring.
>> Another kind of
something floating in the air in Silicon
Valley is founders really hiring for
slope versus experience. So, the very
young, very intelligent, high slope
person versus someone who's sort of been
there and done that. Um, and you talked
earlier about about just smart and and I
it reminds me um I'm a Boston sports fan
and the in the Boston Celtics have an
announcer named Tommy Heinson [snorts]
and Tommy Heinson very announcer. He was
really good. And the Celtics had like a
backup backup center who was very low
skill but was giant. And I remember
Heinstein saying, you know, he may not
have a lot of skill, but you can't teach
seven feet. And I kind of think the same
with smart. You can't teach smart. So,
how much is it about smart versus
experience? I kind of think you guys are
famous for hiring very bright young
people and moving them up. We're we're
as an organization, we're
extraordinarily lucky that we have so
many incredibly bright people that are
interested in working and spending time
at Goldman Sachs. But,
>> you know, I'm I'm in the camp of smart
enough.
>> Okay.
Um, you have to be smart enough,
but the smartest person in the world
without a whole package of other things
not going to navigate Goldman Sachs
well. Not going to be successful in
Goldman Sachs, you know, over the over
the, um, over the long run.
>> You know, the human elements,
um, the ability to connect, resilience,
>> determination,
striving for excellence, you know,
things that matter, you know,
everywhere.
It's interesting when you talk, you
know, you live in a founder world.
>> I live in an established company world
and I deal with founders as clients.
But,
>> you know, it's um, you know, this this
this concept of of slope versus
experience. I live in a world where
experience is worth a lot. I live in a
world, if you sit around the management
committee table at Goldman Sachs,
>> the level of experience and the judgment
that comes from that experience is
extraordinary. underrated in your mind.
>> And and hugely underrated. And by the
way, hugely necessary kind of big
differentiator for the firm.
>> Okay.
>> Um you can't you can't teach experience.
>> No,
>> that doesn't mean somebody without
experience can't do very very well. But
it's you know it's
>> I mean someone can't watch this podcast
and then run Goldman Sachs and not be
able to do it.
>> Well, a lot of people there are a lot of
people that can run Goldman Sachs and
maybe if they do they'll have less bumps
and bruises than I do. But um
>> you know experience experience matters
in these big organizations and when it
matters it doesn't matter when things
are going well.
>> It matters when the bumps come.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and you know you've got to make
difficult judgments and and making those
judgments and and they're not they're
not 9010 judgments. They're 5149
judgments.
>> No easy decisions at the CEO desk.
>> By the way, if it's an easy decision, it
doesn't make it to my desk. One of the
things I've realized is I don't have to
make a lot of decisions.
>> What's the best of two shitty options?
>> Yeah. where that is that is oftentimes
what CEOs face.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. A lot of people listening are VP
of such and such in XYZ scaleup company
and they want to be CEO of a company
someday. Um you were kind of hired from
the outside, you rose up to CEO. Advice
to those folks who are on that kind of
track who want to be not found a company
but become a CEO. And I think basic in
tech a lot of companies are getting
older and a lot of founders are going to
step aside in the next few years and a
new generation will kind of come up and
take over them. Advice for those folks.
What was a younger David thinking about
back then?
>> Well, I think I think one of the things
that's interesting when I was you know I
joined Goldman Sachs at 37. I had I had
actually I had worked early in my career
at Drexel Burnham and then Drexel
Bernham went out of business and I wound
up at Bear Sterns and I did very well at
Beer Sterns. I rose up into a relatively
senior position at Bear Sterns in my
mid30s.
And when I joined Goldman Sachs, I
certainly did not aspire to be the CEO
of Goldman Sachs. You know, I aspired to
to practice the trade of investment
banking, be super successful at it,
impact the organization.
>> Yeah.
>> I I decided that I was a big
organization person.
>> Okay.
>> Um,
>> what do you mean by that?
>> I I loved, you know, there's a dynamic
in a large organization. the resources,
the access, the platform that I found
very very appealing and the leadership
opportunity, you know, in big platforms.
I found that very very appealing. So I
was leading, you know, in my 30s at Bear
Stories, but then at Goldman Sachs, you
know, I was managing hundreds and
hundreds of people. Yeah. Um, very
quickly, thousands of people. [snorts]
>> Um, and I really I enjoyed that. I
enjoyed the platform. I enjoyed being a
part of an institution. It wasn't about
me. It was about, you know, stewarding
>> Yeah.
>> stewarding the institution. I really I
really enjoyed that.
>> But I never, my goal wasn't to be the
CEO of Goldman Sachs. In fact, I I
>> in some ways I'm the unlikely CEO. Okay.
>> Um I came from the outside. I was never,
you know, you can go back and you can
look at some articles, you know, the
dark horse candidate this the unlike. I
mean, a lot of it serendipity, a lot of
it's luck, but it wasn't it wasn't my
principal goal. Now, at the same time, I
just told you that I liked leading
people. And so, I knew I was developing
skills that gave me the possibility of
leading a organization. But what I was
focused on was developing skills and
seeing where the road took me, not kind
of pointing to a seat and saying, "How
do I get to that seat?"
>> Yeah.
>> Um, and so my advice to people that
really want to run a big enterprise,
Yeah. is you've got to do a lot of
different things. So, one of the great
benefits that I got at Goldman Sachs is
I did a lot of different things.
>> They moved you around.
>> They moved me around and I, you know, I
was I was running all of credit trading
when I joined the firm. Yeah.
>> And then Hank Paulson came and said to
me, "You're going to go run equity
capital markets." And I said, "Well, I
really like this job." And he said, "No,
you're going to go do this."
>> Yeah.
>> Um, and so it was it was a completely
different thing.
>> Do you think startups should do that?
They've got a high potential person move
even though they're great in moving the
needle in what they are doing. Should
they have rotation type?
>> It's harder. It's harder. It's harder in
a startup.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. It's harder in a startup because
you you have you have a limited number
of people do again big enterprises and
platforms. This is one of the things
that's really attractive about working
at a big enterprise like Goldman Sachs.
You can move around and do a lot of
things. Yeah.
>> And a startup that's trying to scale in
a business,
>> you know, you don't you don't have that
same luxury. you you can't you can't the
organization can't be as patient you
know to some degree so they they really
are they really are different things but
if you want to lead if you want to
really lead people and lead big parts of
organizations or ultimately lead an
organization
>> I think you've got to try to do a
variety of different things and really
gain experience
>> do you think failure is important along
that road
>> I I think failure is important for
everyone because you know there's
there's no one
>> do you feel like man I fell on my face
on the way
>> I I mean I fell on my
you know, so many times. I mean, so many
times and I I can tell you, you know,
crazy stories about being, you know,
really learning what it is, you know, to
be responsible things. Goldman Sachs is
a very competitive place. We compete to
a very high standard. I I mean, here's a
small, you know, anecdotal story. It was
uh I I was over I had flown over to
Ireland to play golf for three days with
a group of guys I went to college with
because it was the year when we all
turned 40.
>> And I had just started running the
equity capital markets business at
Goldman Sachs. And when I when you know
we got over there um and that night
we're having dinner and this is you know
cell phones existed but it wasn't the
same constant text and everybody in
touch but I checked my message after
dinner so it would have been uh you know
10:30 at night so it's going to be 5:30
in New York.
We had missed a $2 billion equity deal
for uh for Accenture and people were
going apoplelectic as how it could
happen because we had led their IPO, you
know, a year earlier and we missed this
$2 billion equity deal.
>> And you know what, my area, I was
responsible. I was figuring out how to
get myself back to New York. I was back
in the office the next morning dealing
with it. And it's, you know, that's you
learn from those things. Yeah. Okay.
Because the world was like, "Okay,
you're in charge. How could this happen
on your watch? Now I tell the story now
it's 25 years later it's one deal but
that ethos of competing to that level of
excellence that level of accountability
those are things that have really made
Goldman Sachs what it is over a long
period of time and if you want to lead
in that organization
>> you know you have to when when things
don't go right you have to run to them
and you have to jump on them and so I
mean that's happened so many different
times in my career different ways
different things
>> bad judgments on people chose the wrong
people had to correct
Mhm.
>> By the way, I mean, one of the most
difficult decisions I made was for us to
step away from some of the consumer
business that we had started.
>> Yeah, let's talk about that.
>> Yeah. Um,
>> that I don't think that was your bet.
>> Well, I didn't I didn't start it. I, you
know, I I didn't start it. The the the
theision
roll back the history a little bit. So,
it's
>> Sure.
>> The thing that I find interesting about
it after running HubSpot is like you've
got your core businesses. They're going
great. It's like and they're big markets
and you're you're deep in the markets.
Should we just triple down on that or
should we take a risk and do something
new is one question in my head I always
wrestle that. The second question is
okay we did that bet. It's going okay
if we just put enough resource on it
would work. And so the decision to go
into it I think is interesting. And the
decision, I'm sure you doubled down a
couple times about the decision to step
away. That's fascinating to me.
>> Well, there there are a couple things. I
mean, it's it's it's a complex story as
these things always are. And and
>> you know, there's a there's a press
narrative around it that
>> what's the real narrative?
>> Well, the reason that we the reason that
we there are a number of reasons why we
decided to move into the business, but a
big reason we decided to look at the
business was to start to build a deposit
platform.
>> Yeah. because the firm was the largest
wholesale funer in the world and there
are a lot of things that you want to be
the largest in the world. Wholesale
funer as a financial institution is not
one of them.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. [laughter]
>> So, you know, deposits represent, you
know, a much more stable base and
because we hadn't grown up as a bank. We
did not have a deposit platform and
digitization was allowing the concept of
digital deposits. And so the original
idea was we'll build a digital deposit
platform and we'll we'll make some
consumer loans and we'll see what we can
create out of it.
>> Was this bubbling under the surface for
a year 10 years?
>> No, there was there was there was a very
famous meeting out in the east end of
Long Island at Gary Cohen's house who
was the president with a group of the
senior leaders brainstorm. Yeah.
Brainstorming around growth ideas that
would move the firm forward. This was
this was surfaced by by a couple of
other people. not me, a couple other
people there. I was running investment
banking at the time and Lloyd decided
that that he wanted to do it and then
shortly after we started that [snorts]
um Apple approached us as to whether or
not we wanted to look at partnering with
them on a credit card and I think you
know there the thought process was one
of the largest most important companies
in the world you know if you're going to
do this very interesting partner very
interesting tech partner and so a
decision was made that we'd go down that
road we'd try to do it And one of the
reasons we were attracted to Apple is
Apple wanted to do it differently.
>> Hold on, let me stop you there. You're
you're in Long Island. You're having
that discussion. A couple guys present
it.
>> And was there a lot of debate around it?
How does Goldman make a decision like
that? Is it is it consensus? Were there
a bunch of people in the room said,
"Hey, this is crazy." There was a lot of
debate and there were a lot of people
offering opinions, but ultimately
>> the decision to launch the the deposit
platform and um and start the small
lending business that we called Marcus
ultimately was Lloyd's call.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. And that's
>> and was it contrarian to what the room
generally wanted?
>> No, it wasn't it wasn't contrary
although there were people like why
would we do this? But I I think the
deposit thing was a really important
strategic decision. I think that was
right. And then how did you decide you
didn't have any experience in that who
to give that opportunity to as opposed
to acquiring in the space? Here's here's
where I think, you know, and this is all
hindsight, you know, and hindsight's
very easy, obviously, because with
hindsight, you know, you're going to be
mostly right.
>> Mostly
>> I think [laughter] I think one of the um
I think one of the big mistakes we made,
this is a little bit culture, and I've
I've tried to evolve this a little bit.
The firm always
operated as we did new things and we
grew the firm that we've got lots of
smart people and we can figure it out.
It was very insular. There was never a
view that you know let's go get real
expertise from the outside.
>> Now that evolved a little bit by the way
that's one of the reasons why I wound up
at the firm
>> um because I had an expertise that there
wasn't there wasn't it wasn't expertise
that was heavily embedded in the firm.
Um but um
but I think with hindsight we would have
been better if we really wanted
strategically to be in that business to
buy a more established platform instead
of starting from scratch. Now what's
also lost in the story and the narrative
is we built some very very good things.
First of all the deposit platform is
very big and very successful and the
firm is enormous benefits from the fact
that we have this digital deposit
platform. Enormous benefits and that's
worth a lot a lot of money. Yeah.
>> Um and it's very important for the
firm's funding and the way the firm is
competitively positioned.
credit card platform with Apple is an
extraordinary product and service. And
you know, while it's it's out in the
world that we're not going to be a
long-term Yeah.
>> you know, holder of that, it's something
that we built with Apple. Yeah.
>> That is really terrific. It's the And
it's it's a great product. It's a great
service and it's really working now. So,
what prompted the decision? The decision
was prompted by the fact that the
regulatory environment had significantly
changed. We and other financial
institutions were dealing with
regulatory changes and it became very
hard to organically scale that to a
place I see
>> that you could really make it work.
>> The firm was feeling some pressure
because it was a tough time after the
Russian invasion of Ukraine and asset
prices in 2022. We had a lot of
regulatory pressure and
you know a group of us in the senior
leadership said this is not working. We
can make it work, but it's going to be
very, very hard. But it's small and it's
distracting us from the things that can
really create significant market cap and
value. And so we made the tough decision
to park it. It was a tough call. But
there's also a very a lot of attention
on it, unfortunately, for such a small
thing.
>> I mean, if you if you really go back and
think about it, you know, the firm was
doing well.
>> Yeah. And this was less than 5% of the
firm's revenues.
>> And it was getting attention as though
it was 40% of the firm's revenues and
40% of the firm's capital.
>> But that affected the decision because
it was distracting from the progress we
were making in other things.
>> You know, in the long run, it may or may
not have been in the broad breath of
what Goldman Sachs will become over the
next 50 years the right decision, but it
was definitely the right decision for
that time. and it helped clarify the
focus of the firm and get the attention
back on to all the good things the firm
was doing. And I think we've benefited
enormously the last few years, you know,
from that.
>> You just talk about that decision like
CEOs face that type of decision all the
time of like should we double down or
should we just pull the band-aid off and
pull out? Um was that bubbling for a
couple months, a couple years? Was there
another group saying, "Hey, we just need
to double down and get the right people.
is going to work. Can you just kind of
take us in the room and take us inside
your It was a very tough call you made.
>> You know, one of the things about
Goldman Sachs, Goldman Sachs has been a
partnership for 140 years. And I think
one of the things that you know that as
a leadership team we're most proud of
over the last over the last seven years
um is that we've really kind of
completed the journey to really getting
the leadership the broad leadership the
partnership because we still have this
concept of partnership
>> really focused
>> on delivering for shareholders and we're
fully making the transition from kind of
being a public company but still
operating more like a distributed
partnership ship versus now really being
a public company and really working for
the whole of the company
>> and um you know that that that was a
tough thing to manage. So when whenever
you know whenever there are headwinds at
Goldman Sachs
people get very critical of anything
that's not working because they see it
as affecting them.
>> Yeah.
>> You know very directly. I think we're in
a better place in terms of how you know
we operate around that all but there was
a lot of pressure from people in the
organization that thought that it was
going to cost you know them money in the
short term
>> but that that really wasn't weighing
what was what was weighing was the fact
that I still think there was a belief I
knew I had a belief that with a much
longer term lens we were doing something
that could be very interesting and
really give the firm another leg of
growth.
>> Yeah.
>> But I knew that it was going to be very
rough to get there given both the
regulatory environment and the current
market environment and just where kind
of the
>> the culture of the firm felt. And so,
you know, went and talked to the board
and the board's initial response was no,
no, no, no, no. Okay.
>> Yeah. No, no, no, no, no.
>> And, you know, we we talked about it and
we worked through it over
>> one meeting or is this over
>> over a few months? I see.
>> Over a few months. I mean, I, you know,
I was over multiple board meetings, but
it was over, it was over a few months,
>> but um, you know, I look back at
decisions I've had to make. That was
in some ways that was the hardest
decision. In other ways, as as a team we
did the work and we talked about it, it
became an easier decision because it
became clear this was going to be the
right thing for the firm at this time.
>> Okay. A lot of start I work with a lot
of these hot AI startups and they all
want to partner with whoever with open
AI with Apple with SAP with you name it.
My company partnered with Google and
Salesforce you partner with Apple. Um
advice on dancing with giants.
>> Well, you know Apple obviously is a
bigger company than Goldman Sachs.
Goldman Sachs is no peanut startup. Um,
and so I would say
>> but big companies I would say partners
would say there was more I that's that's
exactly where I was go. I would say it
was more of a peer relationship
>> but partnerships between companies are
tough.
>> And you know what I would say to you
know accelerating or scaling up young
companies that want to partner with
these you know these big platforms
you know most partnerships don't work.
>> Yeah. And
there better be really compelling, you
know, glue to that partnership or, you
know, chances of it working or low. I
mean, the you and I know, I mean, you
partnerships are hard. Yeah,
>> partnerships are very hard.
Organizations have different cultures,
different expectations, and partnerships
are very, very hard. Now, that doesn't
mean there aren't some great
partnerships.
Um, but to have them really work, you've
got to have really good alignment of
incentives, of purpose, of incentives,
>> and a governance structure that can
assure that the, for lack of a better
term, the friction in each organization
doesn't doesn't make it harder for those
for that partnership to move forward.
>> I'm just going to go back a minute ago.
You talked about solving for
shareholders
and I I talked to founders and some
founders like there's three constituents
that you can solve for. You really
double down on the shareholders or
really double down the employees or
really double down on your customers.
Where does where's sort of Goldman's
energy? Um where's your energy on that?
I'm not gonna let you off the hook and
say all three. Well, I I you don't have
to you don't have to let me off the
hook, but I'll I'll talk about a couple
of things of the way I think about it.
>> Okay?
>> So, first of all, for any business,
>> okay, if you don't have a product or
service that you're selling to somebody
that is value ad, you don't have a
business.
>> Okay? So, let's just start with whether
it's clients or it's customers or it's
fine,
>> you know. So, what is true north for
Goldman Sachs? True North for Goldman
Sachs is client.
You know, we know
>> it sounds like investors have a loud
voice.
>> Well, investors do have a loud voice.
We'll come to that in a second. But just
if I if I finish this if I finish this
thought,
>> you know, client centricity is true
north. It's one of the firm's four core
values.
>> Okay.
>> Client service, partnership, integrity,
excellence, four core values. But client
service,
client centricity is kind of true north.
And the general ethos of the firm is if
you build trust with clients, if you
take a long-term view, if you do the
right thing,
>> good things will happen.
>> It's a long game, good things will
happen. And I I've watched that in my
career and I believe it deeply.
>> Really deeply. Now, if good things
happen with clients and our business,
good things happen for shareholders. And
you can't be confused. If you are not
delivering for shareholders, you're not
going to be able to do good things for
clients because what do we deliver? What
do we deliver to clients? We devote
people, capital, and technology. And we
marry those things together. And you
know, if you're not performing for
shareholders, your ability to have the
resources and the capability to be
really good for your clients gets
limited.
>> Now, here's the tricky thing. In our
business, we have to have extraordinary
people in our business to be able to do
any of this for shareholders or for
clients. So, I don't want to go back to
you're not going to let me do it, but I
need to I need I need to I need to
deliver for all three. Okay. And it's
almost like it's almost like as a
leadership team, it's kind of like we're
conducting an orchestra, and we've got
to, you know, conduct the orchestra
between, you know, clients, people,
shareholders, and we've got to make it
all sound beautiful. And and at the
moment, we're going through a period
where it really does sound beautiful,
and I kind of like that. But I've also
been through other periods where it kind
of sounded like something was out of
tune. And then you've got to you got to
figure out how to get back into balance.
>> Okay, speaking of orchestras, like I had
an old boss that used to say, "We're not
an orchestra, we're a jazz band." Um,
and I work with all these founders that
they're in 40 person companies going to
400, going to 4,000, going to 40,000.
And they're it slows everything slows
down as they get bigger. And man, they
complain about it. Uh, and they always
ask me like, "Brian, how do I how do I
keep the speed and the intensity and the
missionary zeal as we go from 40 to 400
to 4,000?" You seem to be moving pretty
briskly for a 40,000 person or advice
for these founders.
>> Well, one of the things that's just
interesting is I'm not scaling an
organization from 4,000 to 40,000 to
400,000. you know, I inherited
I I I stepped into my role with an
organization that had about 36 or 38,000
people. And today, you know, I'm I'm in
the eighth year of my tenure, just
started the eth year of my tenure,
>> and we have, you know, 48 or 49,000.
>> So, we've had nice growth.
>> But, you know, the bigger thing is that
we've taken the revenues from 34 billion
kind of on average where they were in
the last decade to kind of 55 to 60
billion. And I think the market cap's
four or 5x.
>> Yeah, we've taken the market cap from 60
70 billion to 250 billion. So, we've
done we've done a really
>> we've done a really nice job at growing
the firm.
>> You know, the firm our firm scales
there. There are businesses in our firm
that scale with people, but there are a
lot of businesses that scale with
capital. And so, you know, one of the
things I think we got really right that
really helped our market shares,
particularly in our core business, is we
put more financial resources. We scaled
more capital into the business and
decided we were going to lean into
providing more resources which
generated, you know, more more return. I
on this point though of of nimleness,
you know, this all gets to culture and
and and you know, one of the things that
I think Goldman Sachs has been around
for 155 years and there's been a lot
said about Goldman Sachs's culture and
Goldman Sachs's culture is unique, but I
would also say it's constantly changing.
>> And the most
>> is that an intentional change or is it
bottomup changing?
>> It's it's both. I mean, it's both. But
but here's the thing. you better be
working at defining what you want it to
be and constantly reshaping it and
amplifying what you think really
matters. And you know, I'll give you an
example
>> of something we did that I think just
shows you how we think about this and
why it's it's so so important.
Co was awful for everybody,
was awful for businesses, particularly
awful for our business. Think about our
business. We have 49,000 people. 50% of
them are in their 20s. It is an
apprenticeship culture. They're coming
to the firm to spend time with people
and all of a sudden the whole ecosystem
is like often a different it's it's like
you know we were we were on Earth now
we're on Mars. Right. Okay.
>> Right.
>> And so you know in that in that context
it frayed at our culture and there was a
lot going on during that period of time
was fraying at everybody's culture. But
as soon as we got to a point which was
like okay we're going to go move forward
as a leadership team we said we have to
kind of reinvest and reinvigorate our
culture and here's what we decided to
do. We said we're going to make a big
investment in this. So there are 450
Goldman Sachs partners. We said we are
going to take the time to send during
the course of a year. It ultimately took
us 15 months. We're going to send all
the partners off in groups of 25 offsite
for two days to talk about the culture,
what's important in the culture, and
what their responsibility is to steward
that culture. Okay. And reinvigorate it.
And I committed to have a three-hour,
four-h hour dinner with every single one
of those cohorts over 15 months.
>> Okay. How much weight did you gain
during that time?
>> I, you know, I tried to eat very little.
And uh but but the point is, think about
it. the most senior people of the firm.
>> Yeah.
>> All going away in cohorts of 25 to spend
two days together. So offline for two
days. The CEO committing to do 20
dinners.
>> Okay.
>> It was a big commitment. You know what?
We came out of that and the firm was
aligned on what mattered culturally.
Okay.
>> And there were some changes and there
were some, you know, nuance things, you
know, still foundational values, but it
was a kick in the pants to everybody.
Hey, we own this. We have to steward it.
We have to feel figure out in the new
world that we're in how do we make this
really exceptional so that all the
things that make Goldman Sachs
exceptional continue to be. And so one
of the things that's just interesting
when I when I talk to founders and
startups they talk about their cultures.
>> Okay. And the first thing going on in my
mind is that's great but the company's
been around for seven years. Okay.
>> How do how do you find a culture in a
company that's been around for seven
years? How are you putting your mark on
what it's going to be? What's it going
to be at 15 years versus seven? It's a
very different thing
>> when you don't have you know that
foundation but culture in all
organizations requires commitment
investment focus
you know that that matters in all big
small growing scaling established
>> you know one or two things that came out
of all those dinners in that big confab
that were like we're this is what our
culture is and this is where our culture
isn't where there a couple of things
that you're like this really changed Um
I you know I think I think you know a
recind of underwriting of what it meant
to hold the organization to a standard
of excellence. I see
>> that that
>> you felt that was slipping.
>> You know, it it slipped. If you think
about what was going on in 2020, 21,22.
I mean, here's
>> saying, you know what, I can do anything
from home that I can do from the office.
Okay, it's not the same level of
excellence as where do I show up today?
How do I bring people along? How do I be
committed?
>> It's just different
>> at least in our business. I'm not going
to say in our business. So, you know,
really re-underwriting that level of
excellence and also getting people to
really rethink, you know, there is no
perfection.
>> Okay. But, you know, excellence is
something that you can choose.
>> Okay.
>> And really re-underwriting that in the
culture I think was something that came
out of this. The other thing that came
out of it as an exercise which wasn't
really about defining the culture but I
think helps a lot is it really allowed
us as a leadership team and allowed me
as the CEO to reunderwite the strategy
and the way we wanted to communicate
around the strategy and really get the
whole leadership of the organization 450
strong 100% on board with where we were
going. And when you get a big
organization, you get the top 450 people
all aligned
on strategically where you're going,
boy, you get a lot of output.
>> I think it's absolutely fascinating how
long you folks have been around and and
thrived. It's very rare. Uh my company's
19 years old, super proud of it. I'd
like to be around in 150 not me, but I'd
like the company to be around in 155
years. What advice would you give me?
What advice would you give founders like
me?
>> I I think it's the wrong I think it's
the wrong lens. Okay.
>> Okay. I I And look, it's interesting if
you go back to companies that were
founded, you know, in the middle of the
19th century, there aren't that many
left. No.
>> Okay. And
>> by the way, companies founded now, you
know, 100 years from now, there won't be
that many left.
>> I think that it's a random walk to
create a hundred-y old company.
>> And in the distribution, the world
changes, the competitive landscape
changes. Um, the goal should be to build
the best business you can, the best
company you can. And as long as you're
doing that, you're really adding value
to your clients, your customers, you
know, you're adding value, opportunities
will emerge that will allow you to go
further, further, and further
>> and you never know where it will wind
up. But the world changes. I mean, go
look, go take
>> You guys change though. The world
change, you change. Is there something
about the culture
>> like you pivot?
>> We pivot. You pivoted huge scale.
>> We've we've pivoted at huge scale. Um
>> you know the history of Goldman Sachs is
littered with moments where the firm
came this close to going out of
business.
>> You can go back to 19 I mean I you can
go back to 1929 of course
>> there was there was but not just the
crash during the crash there was
actually something called the Goldman
Sachs Trading Corporation which was a
public entity that we know that
basically plummeted and almost took the
firm you know almost took the firm down.
Um, pen, we were the commercial paper
underwriter for Penn Central when Pen
Central went bankrupt in the 1970s and
that almost took the firm down. But just
back to the question, you have pivoted
at scale and I see startups pivoting but
once they get to scale, they kind of
stay heavy on the rails. They don't
pivot when stuff comes. Tell me like for
example, you pivoted pretty hard in AI.
You've leaned in very hard on it. Um,
you for a large company, you were pretty
early on that train. I think we're good
at figuring out how technology can make
us better at what we do. But here's the
here's here's the thing I think you have
to be focused on. What do we do? We are,
in my humble opinion, the best
investment bank in the world.
>> Yes,
>> we
run one of the two best trading
businesses in the world. And the
combination of kind of investment
banking and trading, that's what Goldman
Sachs is. We are the best in the world
at it in my humble opinion. Yeah.
>> Um certainly nobody would dispute that
we're not one of the best in the world
at that. And as long as we're really
good at that and we continue to win at
that and that's something that the world
needs, you know, you can perpetuate if
you make the right decisions and the
right pivots. We also have become fifth,
sixth, seventh, depending on how you
look at it, largest active asset manager
in the world. We supervised 3.3.4
trillion dollars and that business is
growing. We we said publicly we're going
to grow at high single high single
digits. We're growing it better than
that. We've got an extraordinary wealth
franchise and that business, you know,
we have a right to win
>> and we're a leader. And so, you know,
ultimately to really sustain, you've got
to really deliver value and you've got
to have leading franchises. You have to
have scale and you have a right to win.
And the reason that that most business
>> 20 years ago are gone.
You're not. Yes, you have a right to
win, but there was a bunch of pivots and
a bunch of bets and through three
different CEOs. What is it?
>> You know, it's the culture's
contributed, the quality of the people's
contributed, the brand built over a long
period of time.
>> Is there a risking mentality inside the
firm?
>> We have a great we have a great risk
takingaking. We have a great
riskmanagement culture inside the firm.
The reason that most that lots of
financial institutions go away is not
because they have a risk-taking culture
or maybe it's because they don't have a
risk management culture. So they make
mistakes and you know financial firms
are levered and they they get they get
into uh they get into trouble.
>> Yeah.
>> You know decisions decisions around over
decades things we would do wouldn't do.
When the world goes left you know we
think left is we go slower.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you don't have to be first
>> in financial services. I think even
second mover advantage is underrated.
>> Yeah.
>> Um succession planning.
>> I'm sure there were some folks that
didn't work out, but it seems like
Goldman's very good at that. And I think
a lot of tech companies are going to
have to go through it. What did they
were what are they doing right? Like you
you're the last three seem like you seem
like I'm a winner of a succession
planning output. Um what are they doing?
I think one of the things that's
interesting about Goldman Sachs is there
are ext the senior leadership at Goldman
Sachs is an extraordinary group of
people. I sit around, you know, the
small table, whether it's the management
committee, which is a slightly bigger
table
>> or even with, you know, the the closest
group of of senior leaders at the firm
and I'm in awe at how smart and talented
and capable and committed and um
extraordinary, you know, that group of
people is. So, let's just start by the
fact there were lots of people that
could have run Goldman Sachs. goes back
to the serendipity point.
>> You know,
>> Lloyd Blankfine got sick in 2015
>> and he decided that he was going to deal
with his treatment and continue to run
the firm and then come back. There are
people who would have gotten sick and
said, "You know what? I'm sick. I'm
going to step away." Okay. Had he
stepped away, I wouldn't be CEO. At that
point, the firm probably would make Gary
Con the CEO. So, because Gary was the,
you know, the president of the firm at
that point in time. So, you know,
serendipity and luck. If the succession
had happened in 2013 or 2014 or 2015, it
wouldn't have been me. But it happened,
it happened in 2018.
>> Did the board interview you and several
other people and was there a rigorous
process?
>> The board the board knows the senior
leadership really well. The board knows
the senior leadership really well and
ours is a firm where there are lots of
people that can run the firm.
>> Um, ultimately there's got to be a
decision.
>> Um, and look, I think succession is
very,
>> you know, very, very important. And one
of the things I'm proud of is that we
have a very stable senior leadership
team at the firm right now. We've been
working together and executing, you
know, on this plan over the last seven
years. And I think it's one of the
reasons why we're making really good
progress.
>> Okay. Back to a point you made. You're
you're apprenticeship culture. You hire
tons of young folks who are smart. My
son's in business school now and
everyone in his class wants to work for
you.
What's going to happen 10 years from now
with AI and that apprenticeship culture
and bringing all these folks in? Do you
think it changes? Like what's your
where's your head at on that?
>> I I think there's always change at the
margin, but I think the substance of who
we are and what we are and what we do
and the fact that we need lots of very
bright people interacting together.
Yeah.
>> Building trust.
>> Um I don't think that changes. And
here's here's the analogy I give you.
And I've been talking about this for a
number of years. And so um you know
there's some people that will listen to
this will say I've heard David you know
say this before. When I started in 1984
>> one of my first assignments was to go do
a common stock comparison.
>> Okay.
>> Comparing five regional banks and how
their stock had traded for five years.
That was a big assignment. How'd you go
do that? You went to the library. What
was the only data source that existed in
the world that had the closing stock
price for every stock that traded for
every single day? Back issues of the
Wall Street Journal. So you went to the
library, you went to the microfich and
you took out on microfich back issues of
the Wall Street Journal. You did all the
work to go through all the old issues of
the journal and find the specific stock
prices. You took out green line graph
paper and you plotted the graph. You
then took it to a Xerox machine and
copied it. And then you went to your
client and you showed them this and they
said, "Wow, thank you for helping us
understand this." It took, I mean, I
don't know, it took four to six hours to
do the work to do it. Technology has
constantly made super productive people
more productive, more capable. I see
this the same way. Now, of course,
technology also replaces certain jobs
100%. We don't have a lot of toll
collectors. No,
>> you know, anymore.
>> But that doesn't mean when you get into
the things that we do, which is a lot
about trust,
personal relationships,
um, advice, you know, at the center of a
lot of what we we do. These become tools
that enhance, speed up, and allow us to
do it even in a broader context. We're
still going to need a lot of people to
do it. Okay? and they're just they will
be trained with different skills with
different skills in different you know
in in different ways and of course
>> you know I I you know let's let's take
one that I just I just think is is
obvious
>> okay all companies have massive
financial reporting and accounting
functions
>> the operational
processes for that are going to be
different and they're going to have a
different number of people associated
with them but that doesn't mean that
you're not going to have people in other
ways. I mean, you know, for me, I'm
excited about what this technology does
because we're looking at how we can
reimagine processes that actually free
up the capacity for us to invest in more
people for our businesses that actually
scale with people
>> because we're somewhat limited. We've
got to deliver returns every year. We
can't scale as quickly as we want or as
fast as we want. So, I think it's an
unbelievable opportunity. It's
accelerating certain things that are
very cool, but I also don't think it's
fundamentally changing the core of what
we do and how we do it. It just makes
it, you know, more it's a very powerful
tool for very productive people.
>> Okay, I'm going to ask you one more
question that your team told me not to
ask, [laughter] so we can cut it out.
>> You can ask me anything.
>> Uh, I thought it was super cool that you
were a CEO DJ. like it it elevated your
brand in this one consumer's mind and
Goldman's brand. It seemed like
I just thought it was [__] cool. It
seemed like you got talked out of that.
Um
>> well, a couple of things. First of all,
I mean I I I I have to go back and tell
my team it's not me telling my team I
don't want to talk about this. It's for
some reason, you know, people on my team
thinking that we shouldn't talk about
this. And um
>> that's not Do you stop doing it?
>> I stopped doing it publicly. Yeah,
>> I still do it.
>> It seemed like people were complaining
that you were doing doing what happened,
you know, what happened at at the
beginning of the first few years.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, you know, I wasn't, you know, I was
doing it eight to 10 times a year
publicly. It's not I was giving money to
charity every time I did it. It's not
it's not as though I was doing it every
weekend or something, but
>> it's a hobby. It's a passion. I really
enjoy it. It's creative.
>> Yeah.
>> And when everything was going right, it
was great. in 2022 when the firm started
having some speed bumps because the
environment changed and we were
wrestling with some of this stuff around
consumer.
>> So, you caught some flack.
>> I caught some flack and and by the way,
I thought I was going to catch some flak
if things weren't perfect, but boy, I
caught a lot more flack than than I
thought I would. And by the way, I
caught a lot of flack on a lot of stuff,
not just the fact that I DJed
occasionally.
>> Um,
and so I kind of reached the conclusion
this is becoming a distraction. M
>> and look, I I think it's unfortunate
because nobody cares that I do lots of
other things with my free time. They
really shouldn't care about this.
>> I still do it privately and I'll do it
publicly again because I really enjoy it
and and it's a great it's a great
creative outlet and I feel lucky that
I've had the opportunity to do it.
>> I I think you're cool.
>> Hardly.
>> I think you're a great steward for the
company. They're lucky to have you. I
want to congratulate you on all your
success and thanks for coming on the
podcast.
>> Well, thank you for having me. I really
enjoyed it. Good to be with you.
>> Pleasure. Thanks a lot.
>> Okay. Hope you like that. He's very
sharp. Um just my take on his vibe is
very polished, very articulate, very
[clears throat] CEOish, and it's a
similar vibe to other professional CEOs
I've interviewed like Nikesh at Powalto.
Um is also like this. Um and I don't
know you well, but I bet you could use a
little polish yourself. So maybe
watching him, you'll learn a few tips.
Well, I ask everybody on these pods like
what's important when you're hiring
people. And he he likes to say you want
them smart enough. They don't have to be
rocket science, but kind of smart
enough. But he really values judgment
and experience. Most startups don't. Um
I look at HubSpot like half our exec
team is kind of homegrown and half is
hire from the outside. I don't know if
that's the right ratio, but his is a lot
of kind of been there, done that people.
I think that's pretty interesting the
way he thinks about it. We talk a lot
about decisions. We talk about the Apple
decisions. And to me, it's just like
you're always choosing as a CEO between
two shitty decisions. No easy decisions
ever reach your desk. And to me, that's
just life in the big city. You've got a
lot of that and get used to it. Okay. I
like the segment on his Apple decision.
Uh they made a bet on the consumer
business and a big partnership in Apple.
And there's it reminded me of a book a
guy named Seth Goden wrote a long time
ago and on the cover of the book was
something called the dip. It's a line
and there's a dip and then it comes
across. And when you're heading down the
dip on a new project like they were, you
don't know if you're about to hit the
bottom and come up the other side. You
don't know if it just keeps going down.
In his case, he was like, I think it's
going to keep going down. We're going to
kill it. That's very hard to do. We have
lots of these inside of HubSpot over the
years where project's going okay. We
funded it pretty well and the people
inside that project are like just give
us six more months and give us some more
money and we're going to get through the
dip and it's going to rip. Um versus
just killing it. And we tend to to give
it a lifeline. And I think more often
than not, we should say no to those
things. Anyway, those are kind of my
thoughts on decision-m.
say no more often and kill stuff more
often. Uh I think people aren't
disciplined enough about that. Those big
partnerships are hard. Um and people
always want to partner with the giant in
their industry and the life expectancy
of those partnerships are pretty low. Um
a few tips on kind of dancing with
elephants. Uh the first is if you're
going to do a partnership, you need to
make sure your incentives are really
well aligned.
And you need to make sure like if we do
this, your P&L is moving and their P&L
is moving in the correct direction
because if the spreadsheets aren't
moving, there's no point really in doing
it. And the third is you kind of need to
know the CEO. The CEOs need to be
committed because as you go through
annual budgeting cycles, partnerships
can get defunded. So if the CEOs are
connected, that helps a lot. Those are
if you're entering into a big giant
partnership, try to get those things
right. Okay. Asked him, you want your
company around for 150 years. What's
your advice? First of all, he credited
luck quite a bit, but he largely
credited culture. And I'll tell you my
journey with culture at HubSpot. When we
first started the company called the
first three years, my co-founder and I
were like, "Culture is BS. Don't even
bring it up. can't like let's not talk
about it. And then I joined a CEO group
and one of the CEOs in the CEO group was
Colin Engel. He made the he was iO
vacuum cleaners and I remember I sat
down next to him at that at first it was
a CEO group meeting and it was my first
one. I didn't know how it worked but
they have a topic for the whole day and
the topic on my first meeting was
culture ship. And so we went through the
whole morning and I was talking with
Colin at lunch and Colin says, you know,
you don't seem to like this topic much.
I'm like, nah, I think it's a waste of
time. And he says to me, you know,
Brian,
culture is how people make decisions
when you're not in a room. Culture is
how you really scale. Yeah, good. I'm
dug in. Colin says it's true. I'm I'm
in. And I go back to the office the next
day and my co-founder
um says, "Well, how was the meeting?
How's Colin?"
And I said, "It was great. I loved it."
What'd you talk about? We talked about
culture. Oh, that's too bad. Waste of
time. He said, "No, Darmsh.
Culture is how people make decisions
when you're not in the room. Culture is
how you really scale your company." And
in a very weak moment, he agreed to be
our culture sar. And we did two things
on culture that really worked. One was
we started measuring net promoter scores
of our employees. And we've been doing
that for 19 years. Really useful metric.
And the other is we we basically
designed the culture. We designed the
relationship between the company and and
the employee and we built a deck called
our culture code. And the way we thought
about it was we have a product that we
sell to our customers. It has to be
unique and really valuable and it pulls
customers in. Our second product we sell
to our employees has to be unique and
really valuable to pull those employees
in. So we spend a lot of time on it and
it's part of HubSpot's secret sauce is
our culture code and the way we kind of
think about that. So I would I would
encourage you folks to do that. If you
want to be around for 150 years, think a
lot about culture. I like the way he
talked about serendipity in there and I
think that matters. There's a book by
Jim Collins on why amazingly successful
companies fail. And if you look at like
the the top 100 most successful
companies in the world, you know, even
25 years ago to today, man, it's just
totally changed. So like there's a lot
of disruption that happens. And Jim
Collins studied these companies that
stumble. And he's got this whole kind of
ladder of things that go wrong, but the
first step on the ladder is hubris born
of success. And he talks about these
companies falling into the trap. He's
got a great quote and [music] it goes,
"Those who fail to acknowledge the role
luck may have played in their success
and thereby overestimate their own merit
and capabilities will have succumbed to
hubris." I wish all of you to avoid that
hubris trap and I'll see you all on the
next episode of Long Strange Trek.
[music]